So as described at the end of last video the problem is we're not storing our files on persistent storage
in a folder where it can not get cleaned up automatically by the system.
So where it won't get removed if space is running or something like this.
Additionally we also then need to store our data and some persistent storage but come back to this later.
Let's start with the file storage and file storage.
Actually is a native feature too.
So here in the native feature documentation you can scroll to file to learn more about this and also
to get a command to install this plug in.
Again have a look at this link to learn more about it and at this documentation general.
Of course I'm going to walk you through the most important features in this video so we copy this command.
So now let's run it to install this plug in ionic plug in at cord of a plug in file file is the name
of this package.
And with this atatürk package we can go to the AT place TS file and at this as a new import from our
ionic native package file Wasden name.
Now with file added We can go on to our on take photo method and here we actually want to move the image
once it has been taken and we can use this file package this file plug in to move files around into
our file system.
The first thing I want to do here is I want to extract the name of this image image data as default
you are l but I want to get the name and for Doesn't Gunks use a regular expression and I'll store the
name in a new contes named current name.
And here are simply excess image data which is a string the payoff to the image and use the built in
javascript method replace to replace a part of the string and store this new string in current name
and the part I want to replace is identified by the following regular expression.
But what this does is it gives me the part at the end of the path.
So it basically identifies all these slashes or backslashes depending on the operating system.
And no this is the PORATH part.
And only if there is no more slash or backslash after the word.
It's now looking at it knows that this has to be the final name because obviously the filename at the
end of the path is not followed by a slash or backslash.
And then it simply replaces this part the path with an empty string so it strips out the power of all
these segments divided by slashes and backslashes so that only the current name is left over is left
and then I'm also interested in the opposite.
And the path for this and again going to use my image data.
And now I'm going to replace the opposite this regular expression here will achieve the opposite.
Here I will identify the end of this part.
So do filename and I will replace this with an empty string.
So these are just two helpful regular expressions I don't want to go too deep into regular expressions
you can also find regular expressions like these by searching for what you want to achieve plus javascript
regular expression here.
I'm extracting file name and path and hopefully did not mess up my regular expressions here.
With that identified.
I can now use the file package this file native feature we imported from ionic native.
And here we get a couple of helpful methods so definitely check out the official documentation.
You can do all kinds of things create files create directories move directories.
I want to move a file of course because I want to move the image I want to move the image at this path
with this name and this is why I had to split it up because move file expects to have path and name
as two separate arguments and not as one single argument.
And then I need to entered a new path not a new path can be found on reserved variable we can access
and that's the code of the variable.
Now we have to go to the top of the file Bellotti imports but above the component declaration here and
declare a new variable corde of the of type.
Any This is a little trick which informs typescript that this chord of a variable will be available
at runtime.
It's not able to identify this very variable right now because it's only available on the native device.
So this is why we have to use this trick to inform it hey it's going to be good.
It's going to be available when we need it and we need the help of variable here because with this we
can access the path on our file system but we want to store those files because that's no signal path.
Instead this is the path for our application and it will vary depending on the platform you're running
on.
Thankfully d'accord of the package itself which we're accessing with this method with this to me with
this variable with quarter of a year has a couple of helper properties and methods.
And the important helper property here is the file property and then data directory.
And that's just something you can keep in mind this expression here gives us access to the folder for
this app on the different platforms automatically adjusted depending on where you run this app where
you can store your files permanently.
Because on both iOS and Android there is a kind of permanent storage directory for each app and you
can access this storage directory with this helper expression here Cordova.
File data directory.
And that's also something you'll find here in the official native documentation for the file package
here for example in an example you see that you have is where a cord of a helper and you can also find
more on the Get up page for this package.
This is why I really encourage you to dive into this for your specific use case or just to manage you
covered them all.
But it's important to know that such helper expressions here exist.
The last argument is to file name.
And here we can just use the current name of course you could always rename it.
This will be didn't you name of this file.
So if this were telling you fall pick whatever we want to move this file or this file name here at this
path to this POV with this new file name which here happens to be the old file name.
And then again we have two blocks or two methods catch and then to handle both arrows and success cases.
And as always you should handle both because that as also can go wrong.
So we should definitely do something in the error case and in this case I actually want to abort this
whole process because well something failed so we said should set the image you're allowed to to an
empty string.
We should also for lottos that something goes or went wrong.
So maybe create a new toast to year with the Tele's controller where we say create and then say as a
message could not save the image please.
Try again something like that for adoration of two and a half seconds and at the bottom is fine.
So that we can then present this toast because again we really need to make sure that we're not doing
something wrong here and we're trying to save a place where we couldn't save the image.
Right.
Also at this point of time any error here we can call camera this camera package.
We also used to get a picture and call cleanup and this will clean up our temporary storage because
obviously it failed.
So no need to keep the image around right.
It doesn't have any use for us in the temporary storage.
So this honesty case that had failed and we can also copy does tell us here now that I see it and show
it here in the Arrow case for the whole camera I get picture method just to complete this too could
not take the image would be the right message here.
So that's just a tiny addition to all the show a message.
If that fails.
But back to the file moving here.
We can't recover the error case.
Now let's talk about that being successful.
If it is successful we get back a data object which will hold our new path so we can then set the image
bureau to this new path and we can exorcise the state object.
And there we have a native you are l property and that's the important property we're interested in
because this property store is d'you or all of this newly created image and since typescript doesn't
like this let's assign the type here.
This will be an entry you need to import entry from ionic native to.
So that's the type definition default package uses for this.
And on entry we do have a native Your L.
And since we're already doing this we can also set the type of this error to file error because that
is the type of error we would get.
You can also import this from ionic native.
So with this we adjusted our types here.
And more importantly we're setting the immaterial to the new you are l Where is stored this file.
We can then also call camera cleanup to remove our temporary files because we don't need it anymore.
We copied the file in the end right.
An alternative would be to call file remove file and then point to the path and the current name which
is the temporary path and the name.
So that's an alternative but camera cleanup should do the same.
And with that we're really moving the files.
No we're storing it permanently.
That's the first important step storing the file in a better place.
Next we also need to store our data so that when we kill the app and we reopen it we still have the
data there.
Let's start working on this in the next lecture.